[REM]
And we're rolling!
Today is very special,
future us!
It's the twin's first birthday!
[VASH laughs]
[REM]
How has it already been a year?
Time flies when you're
with the people you love!
I don't need to eat
this junk, I told you.
Hey! Stop whining!
I'm so hungry!
Some of us don't have to deal
with things as stupid as hunger.
Hush, I'm a plant
same as you.
[KNIVES sighs]
This is such a waste.
[REM] It doesn't matter
whether you eat it or not.
It matters that everyone
was served a fair share.
No waste here, silly.
Uh-oh, the recording
light is off.
Huh? Oh, no.
[REM]
Wait, what?
[gasps]
[VASH, KNIVES laugh]
You two think you're so funny!
Wow, you love that video.
Doting mom syndrome, huh?
Oh what?
Like you didn't know that.
Who could ever blame me
for doting, anyway?
I'm Mom to the sweetest
boys in the universe.
[KNIVES, VASH laugh]
So can we have another birthday
party next year, too?
I say no.
I say yes! 'Cause I love you!
[VASH laughs]
[grunts]
[laughs]
[VASH grunting]
[VASH]
Nai? Where did you go?
Huh?
[gasps]
[KNIVES laughs]
[KNIVES] I finally did it!
A brilliant success!
[VASH]
You killed them, even Rem!
[KNIVES] Don't scold me.
You're my accomplice.
[gasps]
[KNIVES] You gave me
the program access code.
Of course you're my accomplice!
[KNIVES laughs]
Well, aren't you? Vash?
[gasping]
[VASH]
Hold on.
If I can find our ship,
I'll find you, Rem.
[MAN A groaning]
[gasps]
[VASH] I'm sorry,
I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
How could I have known
this would happen?
[SHIP CREW groaning]
[VASH pants]
[VASH]
I... I don't wanna be here.
I just wanna go away.
[BRAD] Hey, there's a kid!
He looks alive!
[LUIDA]
I had a feeling.
But now I'm sure.
That's a plant reaction.
[BRAD]
He looks like a kid to me.
[VASH grunts]
An "Independent," huh?
[BRAD grunts]
What's that?
Plants are usually cloned
from an original cell,
but that's not the only
way they can form.
On very rare occasions,
plants can give birth.
[BRAD] Are you saying one plant
gave birth to another plant?
Geez.
Does he pose any risk?
Shouldn't we toss him in a case
like the non-human looking ones?
[LUIDA]
Mm. Don't know. Not yet.
[BRAD]
Wow, that's a first.
Do you at least know
someone who does?
[LUIDA] You could track
down one of the Sinners
in molecular plant studies
or their team lead, Conrad.
[BRAD]
Conrad? From Ship Five?
--[LUIDA grunts]
--[BRAD gasps]
[grunts]
Where am I?
Talks like a kid too!
Well, his genetic makeup
is very human.
It's still surprising, okay?
I don't see how.
You need to relax.
You relax!
Hey, uh.
Do you remember which ship
you were on before the crash?
Ship Five, ma'am.
[BRAD, LUIDA]
Hm?
[VASH] What happened to it?
And what happened to Rem?
Do you know?
[LUIDA] Officer Rem Saverem, on
duty at the time of the crash.
Is she your friend?
Well, she raised us,
so she's more like a parent.
Who is "us?"
Were there any
other Independents
aboard ship with you?
[gasps] Yeah. There was one,
but I bet he's dead now.
[BRAD] So you ditched everyone
and ran off to save yourself?
What's wrong with you?
What a little shit.
[gasps]
[LUIDA]
You're going to scare him, Brad.
[BRAD]
Boohoo. Brat's hiding something.
How crazy are you?
Look at him. He's just a kid.
I'll go look for Ship Five.
I mean, it's been over 80
hours since the crash now.
The chances anyone survived
don't seem likely.
But who knows?
If we could activate our gravity
plant in time, so could they.
[LUIDA sighs]
[VASH]
Why did you bother saving me?
Huh?
I wanted to die out there.
You understand how lucky you are
to have made it out, don't you?
We survivors can't
talk like that,
even if we think we mean it.
Let's talk about what we
can do starting now.
[LUIDA]
What's your name?
Vash.
Hey there, Vash.
I'm Luida Leitner.
After the big crash,
I somehow wound up in charge
of good ol' Ship Three, here.
[VASH]
Hm?
Now, let's talk about you.
Since you're a
generator and all,
what kind of stuff
do you generate?
Electricity? Chemical compounds?
Maybe amino acids?
Sorry, no. I'm not
like other plants.
I can't "generate"
anything at all.
The other independent
could, though. Not me.
All I do is eat,
drink, and sleep.
[LUIDA] I see.
Sounds about like what I do.
Earlier, you told me that
I'm lucky to be here
and to come up with
something to do.
But there's nothing that
I can do. I've tried.
[LUIDA]
Mm.
[LUIDA] So Brad just
called in from Ship Five.
He said he found
a few survivors,
but no trace of your friend Rem.
I'm sorry, but the
ship was in ruins.
It's safe to say she's--
You should know what
the survivors told us.
That Rem held her post
'til the very end.
She was trying to
stop the crash.
[LUIDA] Is this all you
could find of Rem's?
We spent two weeks under rubble
and corpses to find this stuff.
The least you could
say is "Thanks."
Right, thanks.
You didn't find anything else?
We recovered the black box.
But not sure we can analyze it.
It's pretty banged up.
We also dug up this guy...
but it's trash, too.
So, Ship Five was
completely destroyed,
and ours isn't looking great.
Sounds like we're stuck, huh?
Hey. How long are you planning
to keep that kid around?
[LUIDA]
The food not to your liking?
I'm not gonna eat it, okay?
So stop bringing stuff.
It's a waste.
[LUIDA chuckles]
Oh, please.
It doesn't matter whether
you eat it or not, silly.
[gasps]
[LUIDA] We found this in
the ruins of Ship Five.
[VASH gasps]
[LUIDA] She knew how
special you are, Vash.
Believe in yourself.
There has to be something
special that only you can do.
[VASH] I'm useless.
I can't do anything.
[MALE CREW A] Is that kid the
"monster" they picked up?
[FEMALE CREW A] Look at him!
What a little creep.
[MALE CREW B]
They should kill him already.
[MALE, FEMALE CREW A gasp]
[sighs]
[REM] Getting to know
you two has meant
the entire world to me!
[VASH grunts]
[gasps]
[BRAD] No point in keeping him
alive. It's just like he said,
he's a plant that can't
produce anything.
Jeez, are you even listening?
Yeah, no. But I am close to
reconstructing this thing.
Done!
[REM] Critical error in
navigation settings.
Time until emergency cryo-sleep
recovery is... one hour?
They won't make it at this rate!
[LUIDA]
Wait, is that her?
[REM]
...but who would've--
Manually repairing
trajectory control system.
Control thrusters at maximum.
Work with me. Please, work.
[BRAD]
It's the electrical plant!
[LUIDA gasps]
The flower. It's opening!
What is this?
Its vitals are everywhere!
But why?
[LUIDA gasps]
I'm not sure.
It might be-- If the plants
aren't compatible with this
planet's environment,
what would happen?
You know the answer
is we all die.
[SHIP THREE CREW gasps]
After everything we've
done to survive,
must be something we can do.
[LUIDA gasps]
[MALE CREW C] Come quick!
You've gotta see this!
[gasps]
--[LUIDA] What's wrong?
--[MALE CREW C] Ask him!
[VASH grunting]
Hey! Did something bad
happen to the plant?
Yeah, how'd you know?
He must've overheard us somehow.
I'm sorry, but I'm
too busy for this.
I have to get back there.
It's calling out for help!
It's crying, I can hear it now!
[BRAD] Be smart.
He just wants you to let him go.
[VASH]
Please let me meet the plant!
Its voice is fading fast!
That's enough outta you!
C'mon, let me! It's gonna die!
[BRAD]
Luida.
[gasps] You remember the voice
on the reconstruction, right?
[BRAD]
Huh?
[LUIDA]
I didn't know Rem myself.
No. Don't.
She sacrificed herself.
She did all she could to
mitigate this disaster.
He's safe. I'm sure.
Hey!
If Rem trusted him, I do too!
[REM] Think way back.
Remember that story I told you?
About the man who found a
blank ticket that could take him
anywhere he wanted?
That man is all of us.
Where you go is yours to choose.
No matter what darkness
life throws at you,
you'll always have that
ticket in your pocket.
When you're ready,
fill in the destination.
Boys. I promise you,
it'll be alright.
Trust me.
[VASH] I can hear you.
Don't be afraid.
[ALL gasp]
It's okay. I'm right here.
--[VASH sighs]
--[door opens]
[LUIDA]
It's our hero!
Thanks, Vash.
You saved lots of lives today.
Oh, please. It was nothing.
I just did what I could.
[VASH]
Huh?
[LUIDA]
Come on, follow me.
[VASH]
Uh?
[BRAD]
Hmph.
[VASH]
Uh? What's this?
It's your new room!
Starting now, you're an
official resident!
What do you say,
that sound good to you?
Before you answer,
I owe you an apology.
Sorry we locked you up.
[gasps, laughs]
Thanks a ton, Luida!
You'll have to
thank Brad, too.
I wouldn't have been able to
convince everyone all by myself.
[VASH]
Really?
[BRAD]
Hey. I said don't tell him!
He's not as mean as he looks.
[VASH, LUIDA laugh]
We're going to trade your
handcuffs for a guard
outside your door.
Bear with us for a while.
Soon enough, the guard'll
be gone, too.
Who can say? I still think
you can't be trusted.
One wrong move and
you're out, punk!
--Yeah, yeah.
--Huh?
Oh, and I wanted to tell you.
I thought of something
for you to do. My idea?
You become a doctor!
Or more like a counselor.
For the plants!
[BRAD]
You getting tired, kid?
[VASH]
Kinda.
You should be. This is
our fifth trip this year.
I'm real thankful for you and
the fact you always tag along.
Nah, please.
I'm only here so I can keep eye
on you, and not in the nice way.
[VASH laughs]
I can't complain.
Brat duty is heaven compared
to post-crash life.
You thirsty? We've got
a ways to go. Drink.
[VASH]
You're a nice guy, Brad.
Even though you don't
look like one.
--[BRAD] Give it back.
--[VASH] Nah, I'm good!
[BRAD]
Punk! Jeez.
[LUIDA]
Hey, Vash?
Yeah?
[LUIDA chuckles]
[VASH]
Huh?
[LUIDA]
Ta-da! This is all for you!
A little something
from everyone aboard.
Luida! It's brand new!
You shouldn't have,
clothes are so hard to get!
[VASH gasps]
What a pretty shade of red.
[LUIDA]
Not too flashy, is it?
No. Red's my favorite.
It's Rem's favorite, too.
She used to raise a bunch of red
geraniums back in the day.
Really? Huh.
[VASH]
Mm-hm.
Thank you. I'm so glad
that I get to live here.
This place really
feels like home.
[LUIDA]
"Feels like home." I love that!
"Ship Three's" a bland name.
I've been thinking about
changing it for a while now.
From this day forth, our ship
shall be called "Home!"
[LUIDA]
Both ours and yours, Vash.
[VASH grunts] Huh? Guess I've
got some room to grow.
[VASH]
Home.
[LUIDA]
I never expected you and Vash
to become such peas in a pod.
We're not. I'm just
making sure the punk
doesn't stray too
far outta line.
Jeez, would it kill
you to be honest?
Oh, hey. That's the
black box from Five.
I thought you
couldn't repair it.
[BRAD] I couldn't back then,
but it's been five years.
Things change.
The tech... my skill...
People still blame
themselves for the crash,
because nobody actually knows
what caused it to happen.
[BOTH]
Huh?
And bingo!
[KNIVES laughs]
Now hold on.
[KNIVES] I finally did it!
A brilliant success!
[VASH]
You killed them, even Rem!
[KNIVES] Don't scold me.
You're my accomplice.
[KNIVES] You gave me the
program access code,
of course you're my accomplice!
[LUIDA] I hear Vash,
but who's the other voice?
[BRAD] Must be that
Independent he mentioned.
He didn't die in the
crash after all!
[LUIDA]
But why would Vash lie?
[BRAD] They're working
together, that's why!
The brat's a monster,
not a human!
He's never been on our side!
And to think, we gave
that traitor a home!
[LUIDA sobs]
[gasps]
[LUIDA]
He must've heard us.
He's gotta be hiding a clue
about the other Independent
somewhere in here.
[LUIDA]
Hm?
Find one?
[LUIDA]
Uh.
[VASH]
Thanks to everyone,
I was able to get back
on my feet again.
I consider all of you as family,
so I couldn't continue to lie.
I'm so sorry.
[VASH] No matter how much
you want to forget the past,
there is no escape.
It's time for me to face that.
[VASH] An Independent
will make up
for what an
Independent has done.
The last thing he wrote is,
"This is my atonement."
We have to go after him!
[LUIDA gasps]
You can't stop me!
I won't try. When you find
the punk, tell him I'm sorry.
I didn't mean what I said.
[gasps]
Just wait and tell him yourself.
I'm going to bring him home!
[gasps]
[VASH] Home?
So, they saved me again, huh?
[gasps]
[VASH]
Nai.